---
annotations_creators:
- expert-generated
language:
- te
language_creators:
- expert-generated
license:
- apache-2.0
multilinguality:
- monolingual
pretty_name: Telugu Riddles
size_categories:
- n<1K
source_datasets:
- original
tags:
- riddles
task_categories:
- text-generation
task_ids:
- language-modeling
---

# Summary
`TeluguRiddles` is an open source dataset of instruct-style records generated by webscraping multiple riddles websites. This was created as part of [Aya Open Science Initiative](https://sites.google.com/cohere.com/aya-en/home) from Cohere For AI.

This dataset can be used for any purpose, whether academic or commercial, under the terms of the [Apache 2.0](https://opensource.org/license/apache-2-0) License.

Supported Tasks:
- Training LLMs
- Synthetic Data Generation
- Data Augmentation

Languages: Telugu Version: 1.0

# Dataset Overview
`TeluguRiddles` is a corpus of more than 800 records generated by webscraping multiple riddles websites. This Dataset can be used for the following task:
- Given the riddle, generate the answer for that riddle.

# Intended Uses
While immediately valuable for instruction fine tuning large language models, as a corpus of instruction prompts, this dataset also presents a valuable opportunity for synthetic data generation in the methods. For example, prompt-completions could be submitted as few-shot examples to a large open language model to generate additional riddles and their respective answers.

# Dataset

## Load with Datasets
To load this dataset with Datasets, you'll just need to install Datasets as `pip install datasets --upgrade` and then use the following code:

```python
from datasets import load_dataset
ds = load_dataset('desik98/TeluguRiddles')
```

## Purpose of Collection
Telugu is a low-resource language where there no riddles and their answers generation instruct-style dataset to the best of my knowledge. This was created as a part of [Aya Open Science Initiative](https://sites.google.com/cohere.com/aya-en/home) from Cohere For AI to make sure Telugu is well represented in the space of AI/ML. Unlike other datasets that are limited to non-commercial use, this dataset can be used, modified, and extended for any purpose, including academic or commercial applications.

## Sources
- **Mutiple Riddles Websites**: Performed webscraping from [1](https://telugupatham.blogspot.com/p/podupu-kathalu.html), [2](http://www.maganti.org/podupu/podupu1.html), [3](https://teluguadda.co.in/podupu-kathalu-telugu-with-answers/), [4](http://palukuteniyalu.blogspot.com/2016/03/blog-post_17.html) and [5](http://mostusefulthings.blogspot.com/2011/06/blog-post.html) websites which consists of riddles of varying difficulties. Next, performed some pre-processing of the data like removing unwanted characters and bad riddles from the scraped data. Finally, converted the scraped data into Instruct-style prompts and completions.

## Data Fields
- `inputs`       : Prompt or input to the language model.
- `targets`      : Completion or output of the language model.
- `template_id`  : Id of the template used in `inputs` and `targets`.
- `template_lang`: ISO code of the language used in the `inputs` and `targets` where *tel* refers to Telugu.

## Templates
For the creation of instruct-style prompts and completions from the scraped data, the following one template with 2 different templates were used:
1. Given Title/Headline of the article, generate the article with that Title/Headline.
   | template_id | inputs | targets |
   |-------------|--------|---------|
   | 1 | ```ఈ రిడిల్ కి సమాధానం ఇవ్వు {{Riddle}}``` | ```మీరు అడిగిన రిడిల్ కి సమాధానం: {{Answer}}``` |
   | 2 | ```ఈ పొడుపు కథ కి సమాధానం ఇవ్వు {{Riddle}}``` | ```మీరు అడిగిన పొడుపు కథ కి సమాధానం: {{Answer}}``` |

## Personal or Sensitive Data
This dataset contains public information. To our knowledge, there are no private person’s personal identifiers or sensitive information.

## Language
Telugu

# Known Limitations
- The Dataset is scraped from the mutiple riddle websites and the contents of this dataset may reflect the bias, factual errors, inappropriate and sensitive matters.
- Although there is utmost care taken to keep the dataset as monolingual, there might be some records that may contain English Language along with Telugu.

# Contributors
[Desik98](https://github.com/desik1998) and [SuryaKrishna02](https://github.com/SuryaKrishna02)